In this video, we're going to start writing out some code to get a better understanding of how interfaces
work.
You'll notice I'm back inside my code editor and inside of my root project directory.
I'm going to make a new file called Interfaces.
It's.
All right.
So inside of here, we're not going to write out an interface just yet.
Instead, I first want to define an object that represents a car.
We're then going to write a function that kind of operates on that object, and we'll start to introduce
interfaces.
So to get started, I'm going to make a variable called Old Civic.
Like so.
Ticino A Civic is a type of car or like a vehicle of sorts.
So it's a Honda Civic.
By saying Old Civic, I just mean to indicate that we are going to make an object that represents a
civic that was made many years ago.
So inside this object, I'm going to add a couple of different properties to describe exactly some things
about the Civic.
So I'm going to give it a model property, actually, let's give it a name instead that's just a little
bit more clear.
So this car is going to have a name of Civic.
I'll then give it a year that it was built of 2000 and then a broken property to describe whether or
not this vehicle still runs.
So I'll say it's broken.
True.
Now that we've put that object together, I want to try creating a function that's going to take in
this object and just print out some different properties about it.
So I'm going to define a function called print vehicle.
Then I'm going to add in a single argument.
So we want to call this function with a car.
I'm going to refer to this argument as how about just like vehicle?
That makes sense.
And then remember, we need to add in a type annotation to describe exactly what properties or what
type vehicle is.
Right now, if I hover over a vehicle, it says that it is of type any.
Remember, we want to avoid any types inside of our application and we saw how to add in a annotation
for an object inside of a function just a moment ago.
So we're going to put in the set of curly braces or a colon right there, and then a set of curly braces,
and then we'll list out all the different properties that we expect this argument to have.
And they're different types.
So I expect a vehicle to have a name that is a string.
Remember inside this type annotation to separate different properties will place a set of or a semicolon
like so.
I didn't expect a vehicle to have a year.
That is a number.
I'm going to zoom out for a second so you can see this whole line.
And I expect a vehicle to have a broken flag that is going to be a Boolean.
Finally, I'm going to add in a type annotation to the return of this function.
So right after the argument list, I'll put in a colon.
I don't expect this function to return anything, so I'm going to give it a type annotation.
Avoid like so.
Remember, void means our function returns nothing.
All right.
I'm going to zoom back in.
So now inside of here we can do our actual implementation.
So I'll just do a couple of console logs using properties from the vehicle.
I'm going to use an S 2015 template string, so I'm going to use some back text here.
We'll do some things like let's say, how about name and I'll do vehicle name.
I'll do another little statement here.
I'll do something like yea.
The Hickel year.
And then one more for the broken flag as well.
So broken.
Well, typo there.
And there we go.
Vehicle broken.
Cool.
So now we should be able to call a print vehicle and pass in old civic.
Old civic structure is a name that is string year.
That is a number and broken, that is a boolean.
And so that meets the type annotation we just put on that argument right there.
So we should be able to pass an old Civic and not have any issue.
So I'm going to take a print vehicle and pass in Old Civic and everything looks good to me.
Perfect.
All right.
Now I say perfect, but maybe not quite perfect.
There's one little issue inside this file right now, so I bet you can guess what it is.
This type annotation right here is really long.
It's kind of hard to read.
And if we had any more properties on this object, that type annotation would become even harder to
read.
In addition, if we added in more functions that expected to be we expected to call with Old Civic.
We would then be duplicating this type annotation for each of those different functions.
And so we would have this really long annotation right here duplicated several times throughout this
file.
So as you might imagine, yeah, that's probably not the best.
So let's take a quick pause right here.
We're going to come back the next video and figure out how we can improve this file by using an interface.